web architecture

In web architecture it discuss how web servers are communicating with client applications.
Web server is a software and hard ware which contain number of web files (HTML files) works on top of HTTP protocol.
Main responsibility of web server is to response and reply to the client request. 
Client request will store, process, inside the web server and deliver the response back to the client application. 
web servers can be catergorized into 2 catorgarize 
1.static- static servers are based on file systems hence contents is not being changed from user to user.
2.dynamic- dynamic servers are based on servlets which means content could be changed from user to user.  

web applications

internet- network of networks, inter-networking 
intranet-network inside organizations.
extranet-

Applications which work on top of web browsers with the help of internet, intranet and extranet are known as web applications.
Static and dynamic web applications are taking the content from the server and display them on client side using web browser.


Server side technologies.

server side scripting
Once the application is hosted in a server, developers can do the modifications from the sever side without affecting clients/users.
Which means real time updates/customizations are possible with server side scripting.

Hyper Text Transcript Protocol(HTTP)

HTTP is a underlying protocol which works in web applications as a application level protocol and this protocol will decide how messages are formatted and transmitted between client server systems as requests and responses. 

Cyber security
cyber security threats
In distributed web applications there is a possiblity to get attacked by unautorized people and organizations.
when deploying a distributed application developers need to be prasised on cyber security threats.

**if the system get attacked by unautorized person there is a vulnurability they could attack the entire system. 

Malware 
*malware is a mlasious software which get downloadd to the system computer without knowing by the user.
*malwares are capable of making system changes to work your computer in a different way.
example: viruses, worms, spyware, ransom ware.

Phishing attacks

*emails will send to the client server systems which look like a legitimate email where users will encourage to click on the links in the email.
*once the link has being clicked either malware sensitive request will send to the user.


spear phishing attacks
*in this attack it focus on server side users such as administrators, super admins where they can get full authorization to the system.

Man in the middle attack
*an unauthorized person will broke into the network where the messages are being transmitted between client and server.
*that person can modify , re-generate all communication which happens over the network.
 
Denial of service attack(DDoS)

*in DDoS number of false requests will be created by the attacker and will sent to the server.
*since there are number of unexpected requests server is not capable of responding to all of them. 
*as a result of that massive traffic will create in server side and buffer will overflow due to that legitimate clients wont be able to get the responses.
